Search API - Page Selection Component (#196)
meilisearch/specifications: text/0118-search-api.md

Sets the maximum number of documents to be returned for the search query.

> If in addition to either `page` and/or `hitsPerPage`, `limit` and/or `offset` are provided as well, `limit` and `offset` are ignored. See [explaination](#3181-navigating-search-results-by-page-selection).

Author: ```suggestion
If in addition to either `page` and/or `hitsPerPage`, `limit` and/or `offset` are provided as well, `page` and `hitsPerPage` are ignored. See [details](#3181-navigating-search-results-by-page-selection).
```

> If in addition to either `page` and/or `hitsPerPage`, `limit` and/or `offset` are provided as well, `limit` and `offset` are ignored. See [explaination](#3181-navigating-search-results-by-page-selection).

Author: This has changed, now if the user uses either page or hitsPerPage, the page selection pagination is used.

Sets the starting point in the search results, effectively skipping over a given number of documents.

When specified, `limit`/`offset` by-pass the `page` / `hitsPerPage` parameters (see [explaination](#3181-numbered-pagination)).

- 🔴 Sending a value with a different type than `Integer` for `offset` returns a [bad_request](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#bad_request) error.

> #### 3.1.7. `page`
> 
> - Type: Integer
> - Required: False
> - Default: `null`
> 
> Sets the specific results page.
> 
> By default, page is `null`, or `1` if `hitsPerPage` is provided. 
> The first page has a value of `1`, the second `2`, etc...
> 
> When providing `page` or `hitsPerPage` in the query parameters, the `numbered pagination` system is enabled, which impacts the returned fields and the perfomance. See explaination on the [`numbered pagination`](#3181).
> 
> - 🔴 Sending a value with a different type than `Integer` for `page` returns a [bad_request](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#bad_request) error.
> 
> #### 3.1.8. `hitsPerPage`
> 
> - Type: Integer
> - Required: False
> - Default: `null`
> 
> Sets the amount of results returned for a query.
> 
> By default, `hitsPerPage` is `null`, or `20` if `page` is provided.
> 
> When providing `page` or `hitsPerPage` in the query parameters, the `numbered pagination` system is enabled, which impacts the returned fields and the perfomance. See explaination on the [`numbered pagination`](#3181).

Author: ```suggestion
#### 3.1.7. `page`

- Type: Integer
- Required: False
- Default: `null`

Sets the specific results page.

By default, page is `null`, or `1` if `hitsPerPage` is provided. 
The first page has a value of `1`, the second `2`, etc...

When providing `page` or `hitsPerPage` in the query parameters, the `numbered pagination` system is enabled, which impacts the returned fields and the performance. See explanation on the [`numbered pagination`](#3181).

- 🔴 Sending a value with a different type than `Integer` for `page` returns a [bad_request](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#bad_request) error.

#### 3.1.8. `hitsPerPage`

- Type: Integer
- Required: False
- Default: `null`

Sets the number of results returned for a query.

By default, `hitsPerPage` is `null`, or `20` if `page` is provided.

When providing `page` or `hitsPerPage` in the query parameters, the `numbered pagination` system is enabled, which impacts the returned fields and the performance. See explanation on the [`numbered pagination`](#3181).
```

> - 🔴 Sending a value with a different type than `Integer` for `hitsPerPage` returns a [bad_request](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#bad_request) error.
> 
> #### 3.1.8.1 Numbered Pagination
> 
> By default, `limit` and `offset` are used for pagination. That pagination system, while perfomant, does not provide the required information to create page selection pagination. Upon using `limit`/`offset` pagination, in the returned fields, `estimatedTotalHits` is returned which provides a rough estimation on how many hits may be candidate for a given request. As it is `estimated` it should not be used.
> 
> The `numbered pagination` system provides an alternative which tackles the above mentioned issue when the user needs reliable information for its pagination. For example, when creating a pagination with numbers `<< < 1, 2, 3, ...14 > >>`. Nonetheless, it is less performant as the engine needs to compute the `totalHits` exhaustively.
> 
> With this pagination system it is possible to jump from one page to another using the `page` parameter and decide how many hits should be present in a page with `hitsPerPage`.
> 
> As soon as the either `page` or `hitsPerPage` is used as a query parameter. In the response object, `limit`, `offset` and `estimatedTotalHits` are removed and new fields are returned:
> 
> - `hitsPerPage`: number of results contained in each search results page.
> - `page`: current search results page. Counting starts at 1.
> - `totalPages`: total number of results pages. Calculated using hitsPerPage value.
> - `totalHits`: total number of search results.
> 
> Both `totalPages` and `totalHits` are computed until they reach the `pagination.maxTotalHits` number from the settings. Default (1000).
> 
> As opposed to `estimatedTotalHits`, `totalHits` is a reliable information.

Author: ```suggestion
- 🔴 Sending a value with a different type than `Integer` for `hitsPerPage` returns a [bad_request](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#bad_request) error.

#### 3.1.8.1 Numbered Pagination

By default, `limit` and `offset` are used for pagination. That pagination system, while performant, does not provide the required information to create page selection pagination. Upon using `limit`/`offset` pagination, in the returned fields, `estimatedTotalHits` is returned which provides a rough estimation of how many hits may be candidates for a given request. As it is `estimated` it should not be used.

The `numbered pagination` system provides an alternative that tackles the above-mentioned issue when the user needs reliable information for its pagination. For example, when creating a pagination with numbers `<< < 1, 2, 3, ...14 > >>`. Nonetheless, it is less performant as the engine needs to compute the `totalHits` exhaustively.

With this pagination system, it is possible to jump from one page to another using the `page` parameter and decide how many hits should be present in a page with `hitsPerPage`.

As soon as either `page` or `hitsPerPage` is used as a query parameter. In the response object, `limit`, `offset`, and `estimatedTotalHits` are removed and new fields are returned:

- `hitsPerPage`: number of results in each search results page.
- `page`: current search results page. The counting starts at 1.
- `totalPages`: total number of results pages. Calculated using `hitsPerPage` value.
- `totalHits`: total number of search results.

Both `totalPages` and `totalHits` are computed until they reach the `pagination.maxTotalHits` number from the settings. Default (1000).

As opposed to `estimatedTotalHits`, `totalHits` is a reliable information.
```

> ##### 3.1.8.1.1 Limit/offset parameters
> 
> When either `limit` or `offset` is specified or when neither `limit`, `offset`, `page` and `hitsPerPage` are specific, the response object contains related fields:
> - `estimatedTotalHits`
> - `limit`
> - `offset`. 
> 
> Example, given the following query parameters:
> 
> - limit: 10
> - offset: 1
> 
> The response objects contains these specific fields:

Author: ```suggestion
##### 3.1.8.1.1 Limit/offset parameters

When either `limit` or `offset` is specified or when neither `limit`, `offset`, `page` and `hitsPerPage` are specific, the response object contains related fields:
- `estimatedTotalHits`
- `limit`
- `offset`. 

For example, given the following query parameters:

- limit: 10
- offset: 1

The response objects contain these specific fields:
```

```json
{
    "hits": [
        /// ... 10 hits
    ],
    /// ... other fields
    "limit": 10,
    "offset": 1,
    "estimatedTotalHits": 1345
}
```

> Example, on a query with no query parameters:
> 
> The response objects contains these specific fields:

Author: ```suggestion
For example, on a query with no query parameters:

The response objects contain these specific fields:
```

```json
{
    "hits": [
        /// ... 10 hits
    ],
    /// ... other fields
    "limit": 20,
    "offset": 0,
    "estimatedTotalHits": 1345
}
```

If in addition to `limit` and/or `offset`, either `page` or `hitsPerPage` is also provided, tje `limit` and `offset` pagination is used.

##### 3.1.8.1.2 page/hitsPerPage parameters

> When either `page` or `hitsPerPage` is specified, and **not** either `limit` or `offset` 
> The response object contains the following related fields: 
> - `totalHits`
> - `totalPages`
> - `page`
> - `hitsPerPage` 
> 
> Example, given the following query parameters:
> 
> - page: 2
> - hitsPerPage: 10
> 
> The response objects contains these specific fields:

Author: ```suggestion
When either `page` or `hitsPerPage` is specified, and **not** either `limit` or `offset` 
The response object contains the following related fields: 
- `totalHits`
- `totalPages`
- `page`
- `hitsPerPage` 

For example, given the following query parameters:

- page: 2
- hitsPerPage: 10

The response objects contain these specific fields:
```

Sets the starting point in the search results, effectively skipping over a given number of documents.

> If in addition to either `page` and/or `hitsPerPage`, `limit` and/or `offset` are provided as well, `limit` and `offset` are ignored. See [explaination](#3181-navigating-search-results-by-page-selection).

Author: ```suggestion
If in addition to either `page` and/or `hitsPerPage`, `limit` and/or `offset` are provided as well, `page` and `hitsPerPage` are ignored. See [details](#3181-navigating-search-results-by-page-selection).
```

- 🔴 Sending a value with a different type than `Integer` for `offset` returns a [bad_request](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#bad_request) error.

#### 3.1.7. `page`

- Type: Integer
- Required: False
- Default: `null`

Sets the specific results page.

By default, page is `null`, or `1` if `hitsPerPage` is provided. 
The first page has a value of `1`, the second `2`, etc...

> When providing `page` or `hitsPerPage` in the query parameters, the `page selection` system is enabled, which impacts the returned fields and the performance. See explanation on the [`page selection`](#3181-navigating-search-results-by-page-selection).

Author: ```suggestion
When providing `page` or `hitsPerPage` in the query parameters, the `page selection` system is enabled, it makes it possible to navigate through the search results pages. See explanation on the [`page selection`](#3181-navigating-search-results-by-page-selection).
```

?

> If in addition to either `page` and/or `hitsPerPage`, `limit` and/or `offset` are provided as well, `limit` and `offset` are ignored. See [explaination](#3181-navigating-search-results-by-page-selection).

Author: ```suggestion
If in addition to either `page` and/or `hitsPerPage`, `limit` and/or `offset` are provided as well, `page` and `hitsPerPage` are ignored. See [details](#3181-navigating-search-results-by-page-selection).
```

- 🔴 Sending a value with a different type than `Integer` for `page` returns a [bad_request](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#bad_request) error.

#### 3.1.8. `hitsPerPage`

- Type: Integer
- Required: False
- Default: `null`

Sets the number of results returned for a query.

By default, `hitsPerPage` is `null`, or `20` if `page` is provided.

> When providing `page` or `hitsPerPage` in the query parameters, the `page selection` system is enabled, which impacts the returned fields and the performance. See explanation on the [`page selection`](#3181-navigating-search-results-by-page-selection).

Author: How would you phrase it to invite people to go you #3181 ?

> When providing `page` or `hitsPerPage` in the query parameters, the `page selection` system is enabled, which impacts the returned fields and the performance. See explanation on the [`page selection`](#3181-navigating-search-results-by-page-selection).

Reviewer: I don't know, for me it's ok if it's duplicated in some place. It was more of a suggestion to consider if you had a quick idea of how to do it.

If in addition to either `page` and/or `hitsPerPage`, `limit` and/or `offset` are provided as well, `limit` and `offset` are ignored. See [explaination](#3181-navigating-search-results-by-page-selection).

- 🔴 Sending a value with a different type than `Integer` for `hitsPerPage` returns a [bad_request](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#bad_request) error.

#### 3.1.8.1. Navigating search results by page selection

By default, `limit` and `offset` are used for pagination. That pagination system, while performant, does not provide the required information to create a correct page selection. Upon using `limit`/`offset`, `estimatedTotalHits` is returned which provides a rough estimation of how many hits may be candidates for a given request. See [`limit`/`offset` usage](#31811-limitoffset-usage) for further explaination.

The `page selection` system provides an alternative that tackles the above-mentioned issue when the user needs reliable information for its pagination. For example, when creating a pagination with numbers `<< < 1, 2, 3, ...14 > >>`. Nonetheless, it is less performant as the engine needs to compute the `totalHits` exhaustively. 

> With this page selection system, it is possible to jump from one page to another using the `page` parameter and decide how many hits should be present in a page with `hitsPerPage`. See [`page`/`hitsPerPage` usage](#31812-pagehitsperpage-usage) for further explaination.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this page selection system, it is possible to jump from one page to another using the `page` parameter and decide how many results should be returned per page with the `hitsPerPage` parameter. See [`page`/`hitsPerPage` usage](#31812-pagehitsperpage-usage) for further explanation.
```

##### 3.1.8.1.1. Limit/offset usage

> When either `limit` or `offset` is specified or when neither `limit`, `offset`, `page` and `hitsPerPage` are specific, the response object contains related fields:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When either `limit` or `offset` is specified or when neither `limit`, `offset`, `page` and `hitsPerPage` are specific, the response object contains the related fields:
```

Reviewer: It's seems contradictory with the statement bieng made in `##### 3.1.8.1.2 page/hitsPerPage usage`

👇

As soon as either `page` or `hitsPerPage` is used as a query parameter, in the response object, `limit`, `offset`, and `estimatedTotalHits` are removed and new fields are returned:

Author: How is it contradictory? 

This is what it says to enable limit/offset pagination: 
- `limit` or `offset`
- none of the 4th

My bad if I don't see it

Reviewer: My bad you are right!

- [`estimatedTotalHits`](#324-estimatedtotalhits)
- [`limit`](#322-limit)
- [`offset`](#323-offset)

If in addition to `limit` and/or `offset`, either `page` or `hitsPerPage` is also provided, `limit` and `offset` parameters are ignored.

For example, given the following query parameters:

- limit: 10
- offset: 1

The response objects contain these specific fields:
```json
{
    "hits": [
        /// ... 10 hits
    ],
    /// ... other fields
    "limit": 10,
    "offset": 1,
    "estimatedTotalHits": 1345
}
```

For example, on a query with no query parameters:

The response objects contain these specific fields:
```json
{
    "hits": [
        /// ... 10 hits
    ],
    /// ... other fields
    "limit": 20,
    "offset": 0,
    "estimatedTotalHits": 1345
}
```

##### 3.1.8.1.2 page/hitsPerPage usage

> As soon as either `page` or `hitsPerPage` is used as a query parameter, in the response object, `limit`, `offset`, and `estimatedTotalHits` are removed and new fields are returned:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As soon as either `page` or `hitsPerPage` is used as a query parameter, in the response object, `limit`, `offset`, and `estimatedTotalHits` are removed and page selection related fields are returned:
```

> - [`hitsPerPage`](#326-hitsperpage): number of results in each search results page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [`hitsPerPage`](#326-hitsperpage): number of results per page.
```

> - [`page`](#325-page): current search results page. The counting starts at 1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [`page`](#325-page): current search results page. The counting starts at `1`.
```

- [`totalPages`](#327-totalpages): total number of results pages. Calculated using `hitsPerPage` value.
- [`totalHits`](#328-totalhits): total number of search results.

> Both `totalPages` and `totalHits` are computed until they reach the `pagination.maxTotalHits` number from the settings. Default (1000).

Reviewer: Could be nice to have a link to the maxTotalHits parameter in the pagination settings specs here 🤓 

Removing the Default (1000) prevents us from maintaining it at multiple places if we change it in the future. WDYT?

Author: ```suggestion
Both `totalPages` and `totalHits` are computed until they reach the [`pagination.maxTotalHits`](#https://github.com/meilisearch/specifications/blob/main/text/157-pagination-setting-api.md#311-maxtotalhits) number from the settings.
```

Sets the specific results page.

By default, page is `null`, or `1` if `hitsPerPage` is provided. 

> The first page has a value of `1`, the second `2`, etc... When `0` is provided as a value, no hits are returned.

Reviewer: 👍

Highlighted parts are surrounded by the [`highlightPreTag`](3111-highlightpretag) and [`highlightPostTag`](#3112-highlightposttag) parameters.

`attributesToHighlight` only works on values of the following types: `string`, `number`, `array`, `object`. When highlighted, number attributes are transformed to string.

- 🔴 Sending a value with a different type than `Array[String]`(POST), `String`(GET) or `null` for `attributesToHighlight` returns a [bad_request](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#bad_request) error.

##### 3.1.10.1. searchableAttributes

Attributes not defined in the `searchableAttributes` index setting are also highlighted if assigned to `attributesToHighlight`.

##### 3.1.10.2. stopWords

Attributes defined in the `stopWords` index setting are also highlighted if matched.

##### 3.1.10.3. Tokenizer Separators

Tokenizer separators are not highlighted.

##### 3.1.10.4. synonyms

Synonyms are also highlighted.

#### 3.1.11. `highlightPreTag`

- Type: String
- Required: False
- Default: `"<em>"`

Specifies the string to put **before** every highlighted query terms.

> This parameter is applied to the fields configured in `attributesToHighlight`. If there are none, this parameter has no effect. See [3.1.8. `attributesToHighlight`](3110-attributestohighlight) section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This parameter is applied to the fields configured in `attributesToHighlight`. If there are none, this parameter has no effect. See [3.1.10. `attributesToHighlight`](3110-attributestohighlight) section.
```

- 🔴 Sending a value with a different type than `String` for `highlightPreTag` returns a [bad_request](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#bad_request) error.

If `attributesToHighlight` is omitted while `highlightPreTag` is specified, there is no error.

#### 3.1.12. `highlightPostTag`

- Type: String
- Required: False
- Default: `"</em>"`

Specifies the string to put **after** the highlighted query terms.

> This parameter is applied to the fields from `attributesToHighlight`. If there are none, this parameter has no effect. See [3.1.8. `attributesToHighlight`](3110-attributestohighlight) section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This parameter is applied to the fields from `attributesToHighlight`. If there are none, this parameter has no effect. See [3.1.10. `attributesToHighlight`](3110-attributestohighlight) section.
```

If `"*"` is provided as a value (`attributesToCrop=["*"]`), all the attributes present in `displayedAttributes` setting will be cropped.

> The number of words contained in the cropped value is defined by the `cropLength` parameter. See [3.1.1.12. `cropLength`](#3114-croplength) section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The number of words contained in the cropped value is defined by the `cropLength` parameter. See [3.1.1.14. `cropLength`](#3114-croplength) section.
```

The engine adds a marker by default in front of and/or behind the part selected by the cropper. This marker is customizable. See [3.1.13. `cropMarker`](#3115-cropmarker) section.

- 🔴 Sending a value with a different type than `Array[String]`(POST), `String`(GET) or `null` for `attributesToCrop` returns a [bad_request](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#bad_request) error.

##### 3.1.13.2. searchableAttributes

Attributes configured in `attributesToCrop` are cropped even if not present in the `searchableAttributes` index setting.

##### 3.1.13.3. stopWords

Terms defined in the `stopWords` index setting are counted as words regarding `cropLength`.

##### 3.1.13.3. Tokenizer Separators

Tokenizer separators aren't counted as words regarding `cropLength`.

#### 3.1.14. `cropLength`

- Type: Integer
- Required: False
- Default: `10`

Sets the total number of **words** to keep for the cropped part of an attribute specified in the `attributesToCrop` parameter. It means that if `10` is set for `cropLength`, the cropped part returned in `_formatted` will only be 10 words long.

> This parameter is applied to the fields from `attributesToCrop`. If there are none, this parameter has no effect. See [3.1.11. `attributesToCrop`](#3113-attributestocrop) section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This parameter is applied to the fields from `attributesToCrop`. If there are none, this parameter has no effect. See [3.1.13. `attributesToCrop`](#3113-attributestocrop) section.
```

`Natalie risk her future. Split The World is a book…`

#### 3.1.15. `cropMarker`

- Type: String
- Required: False
- Default: `"…"` (U+2026)

> Sets which string to add before and/or after the cropped text. See [3.1.11. `attributesToCrop`](#3113-attributestocrop) section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sets which string to add before and/or after the cropped text. See [3.1.13. `attributesToCrop`](#3113-attributestocrop) section.
```

> The specified crop marker is applied by following rules outline in section [3.1.13.1. Applying `cropMarker`](#31131-applyi15-cropmarker).

Reviewer: 🤔 is that for the "`" char? 🤯

> The specified crop marker is applied by following rules outline in section [3.1.13.1. Applying `cropMarker`](#31131-applyi15-cropmarker).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The specified crop marker is applied by following rules outline in section [3.1.15.1. Applying `cropMarker`](#31151-applyi15-cropmarker).
```

Specifying `cropMarker` to `""` or `null` implies that no marker will be applied to the cropped part.

> This parameter is applied to the fields configured in `attributesToCrop`. If there are none, this parameter has no effect. See [3.1.11. `attributesToCrop`](#3113-attributestocrop) section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This parameter is applied to the fields configured in `attributesToCrop`. If there are none, this parameter has no effect. See [3.1.13. `attributesToCrop`](#3113-attributestocrop) section.
```

`start` and `length` are measured in bytes and not the number of characters. For example, `ü` represents two bytes but one character.

> See [3.1.14. `showMatchesPosition`](#3116-showmatchesposition) section.

#### 3.2.2. `limit`

- Type: Integer
- Required: False

> Returns the `limit` search parameter used for the query. 
> This field is returned only when:
> - `limit` or/and `offset` were used as a query parameter.
> - `limit`, `offset`, `page`, `hitsPerPage` were not used as a query parameter 

Author: ```suggestion
Returns the `limit` search parameter used for the query. 
This field is returned only when:
- `limit` or/and `offset` were used as query parameters.
- `limit`, `offset`, `page`, `hitsPerPage` were not used as a query parameter 
```

See [explaination](#3181-numbered-pagination) on the different paginations.

> See [3.1.5. `limit`](#315-limit) section.

#### 3.2.3. `offset`

- Type: Integer

> - Required: False
> 
> Returns the `offset` search parameter used for the query. This field is returned only when `limit` or/and `offset` was used as a query parameter.
> This field is returned only when:
> - `limit` or/and `offset` were used as a query parameter.
> - `limit`, `offset`, `page`, `hitsPerPage` were not used as a query parameter 

Author: ```suggestion
- Required: False

Returns the `offset` search parameter used for the query. This field is returned only when `limit` or/and `offset` was used as a query parameter.
This field is returned only when:
- `limit` or/and `offset` were used as query parameters.
- `limit`, `offset`, `page`, `hitsPerPage` were not used as query parameter 
```

See [explaination](#3181-numbered-pagination) on the different paginations.

> See [3.1.6. `offset` section](#316-offset) section.

#### 3.2.4. `estimatedTotalHits`

- Type: Integer
- Required: False

> Returns the estimated number of candidates for the search query. This field is returned only when `limit` or/and `offset` was used as a query parameter.
> 
> See [explaination](#3181-numbered-pagination) on the different paginations.
> 
> #### 3.2.5. `page`
> 
> - Type: Integer
> - Required: False
> 
> Returns the current search results page. This field is returned only when the `numbered pagination` is enabled, see [explaination](#3181-numbered-pagination)..
> 
> > See [3.1.7. `page` section](#317-page) section.
> 
> #### 3.2.6. `hitsPerPage`
> 
> - Type: Integer
> - Required: False
> 
> Returns the number of results contained in a search result page. This field is returned only when the `numbered pagination` is enabled, see [explaination](#3181-numbered-pagination)..

Author: ```suggestion
Returns the estimated number of candidates for the search query. This field is returned only when `limit` or/and `offset` are used as a query parameter.

See [explaination](#3181-numbered-pagination) on the different paginations.

#### 3.2.5. `page`

- Type: Integer
- Required: False

Returns the current search results page. This field is returned only when the `numbered pagination` is enabled; see [explaination](#3181-numbered-pagination).

> See [3.1.7. `page` section](#317-page) section.

#### 3.2.6. `hitsPerPage`

- Type: Integer
- Required: False

Returns the number of results contained in a search result page. This field is returned only when the `numbered pagination` is enabled; see [explaination](#3181-numbered-pagination).
```

> See [3.1.7. `hitsPerPage` section](#318-hitsperpage) section.

> #### 3.2.7. `totalPages`
> 
> - Type: Integer
> - Required: False
> 
> Returns the total number of results pages. Calculated using [`hitsPerPage`]. Both `totalPages` and `totalHits` are computed until they reach the `pagination.maxTotalHits` number from the settings (default `1000`).
> 
> This field is returned only when the `numbered pagination` is enabled, see [explaination](#3181-numbered-pagination)..
> 
> 
> #### 3.2.8. `totalHits`
> 
> - Type: Integer
> - Required: False
> 
> Returns the total number of search results. Both `totalPages` and `totalHits` are computed until they reach the `pagination.maxTotalHits` number from the settings (default `1000`).

Author: ```suggestion
#### 3.2.7. `totalPages`

- Type: Integer
- Required: False

Returns the total number of results pages. Calculated using [`hitsPerPage`]. Both `totalPages` and `totalHits` are computed until they reach the `pagination.maxTotalHits` number from the settings (default `1000`).

This field is returned only when the `numbered pagination` is enabled; see [explaination](#3181-numbered-pagination)..

#### 3.2.8. `totalHits`

- Type: Integer
- Required: False

Returns the total number of search results. Both `totalPages` and `totalHits` are computed until they reach the `pagination.maxTotalHits` number from the settings (default `1000`).
```

`start` and `length` are measured in bytes and not the number of characters. For example, `ü` represents two bytes but one character.

> See [3.1.14. `showMatchesPosition`](#3116-showmatchesposition) section.

#### 3.2.2. `limit`

- Type: Integer
- Required: False

Returns the `limit` search parameter used for the query. 
This field is returned only when:
- `limit` and/opr `offset` are used as query parameters.
- None of `limit`, `offset`, `page`, `hitsPerPage` are used as a query parameter

> See [explaination](#3181-navigating-search-results-by-page-selection) on the different paginations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See [details](#3181-navigating-search-results-by-page-selection) on the different ways of navigating search results.
```

> See [3.1.5. `limit`](#315-limit) section.

#### 3.2.3. `offset`

- Type: Integer
- Required: False

Returns the `offset` search parameter used for the query.
This field is returned only when:
- `limit` and/opr `offset` are used as query parameters.
- None of `limit`, `offset`, `page`, `hitsPerPage` are used as a query parameter

> See [explaination](#3181-navigating-search-results-by-page-selection) on the different paginations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See [explanation](#3181-navigating-search-results-by-page-selection) on the different ways of navigating search results.
```

> See [3.1.6. `offset` section](#316-offset) section.

#### 3.2.4. `estimatedTotalHits`

- Type: Integer
- Required: False

Returns the estimated number of candidates for the search query. This field is returned only when `limit` or/and `offset` are used as a query parameter.

This field is returned only when:
- `limit` and/opr `offset` are used as query parameters.
- None of `limit`, `offset`, `page`, `hitsPerPage` are used as a query parameter

> See [explaination](#3181-navigating-search-results-by-page-selection) on the different paginations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See [details](#3181-navigating-search-results-by-page-selection) on the different ways of navigation search results.
```

#### 3.2.5. `page`

- Type: Integer
- Required: False

> Returns the current search results page. This field is returned only when the `page selection` feature is enabled; see [explaination](#3181-navigating-search-results-by-page-selection).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns the current search results page. This field is returned only when the `page selection` feature is enabled; see [details](#3181-navigating-search-results-by-page-selection).
```

> See [3.1.7. `page` section](#317-page) section.

#### 3.2.6. `hitsPerPage`

- Type: Integer
- Required: False

> Returns the number of results contained in a search result page. This field is returned only when the `page selection` feature is enabled; see [explaination](#3181-navigating-search-results-by-page-selection).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns the number of results per page. This field is returned only when the `page selection` feature is enabled; see [details](#3181-navigating-search-results-by-page-selection).
```

> See [3.1.7. `hitsPerPage` section](#318-hitsperpage) section.

#### 3.2.7. `totalPages`

- Type: Integer
- Required: False

> Returns the total number of results pages. Calculated using [`hitsPerPage`]. Both `totalPages` and `totalHits` are computed until they reach the `pagination.maxTotalHits` number from the settings (default `1000`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns the total number of selectable pages. Calculated using [`hitsPerPage`]. Both `totalPages` and `totalHits` are computed until they reach the `pagination.maxTotalHits` number from the settings (default `1000`).
```

A direct link to the pagination settings could be cool here 🤓

> This field is returned only when the `page selection` feature is enabled; see [explaination](#3181-navigating-search-results-by-page-selection)..

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This field is returned only when the `page selection` feature is enabled; see [details](#3181-navigating-search-results-by-page-selection).
```

#### 3.2.8. `totalHits`

- Type: Integer
- Required: False

Returns the total number of search results. Both `totalPages` and `totalHits` are computed until they reach the `pagination.maxTotalHits` number from the settings (default `1000`).

> This field is returned only when the `page selection` feature is enabled, see [explaination](#3181-navigating-search-results-by-page-selection)..

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This field is returned only when the `page selection` feature is enabled, see [details](#3181-navigating-search-results-by-page-selection).
```

`start` and `length` are measured in bytes and not the number of characters. For example, `ü` represents two bytes but one character.

> See [3.1.14. `showMatchesPosition`](#3116-showmatchesposition) section.

#### 3.2.2. `limit`

- Type: Integer
- Required: False

Returns the `limit` search parameter used for the query. 
This field is returned only when:
- `limit` and/or `offset` are used as query parameters.
- None of `limit`, `offset`, `page`, `hitsPerPage` are used as a query parameter

See [details](#3181-navigating-search-results-by-page-selection) on the different ways of navigating search results.

> See [3.1.5. `limit`](#315-limit) section.

#### 3.2.3. `offset`

- Type: Integer
- Required: False

Returns the `offset` search parameter used for the query.

> This field is returned only when None of `page` and `hitsPerPage` are used as a query parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This field is returned only when none of `page` and `hitsPerPage` are used as a query parameter.
```

> See [3.1.6. `offset` section](#316-offset) section.

#### 3.2.4. `estimatedTotalHits`

- Type: Integer
- Required: False

Returns the estimated number of candidates for the search query. This field is returned only when `limit` or/and `offset` are used as a query parameter.

This field is returned only when:
- `limit` and/or `offset` are used as query parameters.
- None of `limit`, `offset`, `page`, `hitsPerPage` are used as a query parameter

See [details](#3181-navigating-search-results-by-page-selection) on the different ways of navigation search results.

#### 3.2.5. `page`

- Type: Integer
- Required: False

Returns the current search results page. This field is returned only when the `page selection` feature is enabled; see [details](#3181-navigating-search-results-by-page-selection).

> See [3.1.7. `page` section](#317-page) section.

#### 3.2.6. `hitsPerPage`

- Type: Integer
- Required: False

Returns the number of results per page. This field is returned only when the `page selection` feature is enabled; see [details](#3181-navigating-search-results-by-page-selection).

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

`start` and `length` are measured in bytes and not the number of characters. For example, `ü` represents two bytes but one character.

> See [3.1.14. `showMatchesPosition`](#3116-showmatchesposition) section.

#### 3.2.2. `limit`

- Type: Integer
- Required: False

Returns the `limit` search parameter used for the query. 
This field is returned only when:

> - `limit` and/opr `offset` are used as query parameters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `limit` and/or `offset` are used as query parameters.
```

- None of `limit`, `offset`, `page`, `hitsPerPage` are used as a query parameter

See [explaination](#3181-navigating-search-results-by-page-selection) on the different paginations.

> See [3.1.5. `limit`](#315-limit) section.

#### 3.2.3. `offset`

- Type: Integer
- Required: False

Returns the `offset` search parameter used for the query.
This field is returned only when:

> - `limit` and/opr `offset` are used as query parameters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `limit` and/or `offset` are used as query parameters.
```

> This field is returned only when:
> - `limit` and/or `offset` are used as query parameters.
> - None of `limit`, `offset`, `page`, `hitsPerPage` are used as a query parameter

Reviewer 3: what do you think of saying
```suggestion
This field is returned only when None of `page` and `hitsPerPage` are used as a query parameter.
```

See [explaination](#3181-navigating-search-results-by-page-selection) on the different paginations.

> See [3.1.6. `offset` section](#316-offset) section.

#### 3.2.4. `estimatedTotalHits`

- Type: Integer
- Required: False

Returns the estimated number of candidates for the search query. This field is returned only when `limit` or/and `offset` are used as a query parameter.

This field is returned only when:

> - `limit` and/opr `offset` are used as query parameters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `limit` and/or `offset` are used as query parameters.
```

> This field is returned only when:
> - `limit` and/or `offset` are used as query parameters.
> - None of `limit`, `offset`, `page`, `hitsPerPage` are used as a query parameter

Reviewer 3: what do you think of saying
```suggestion
This field is returned only when None of `page` and `hitsPerPage` are used as a query parameter.
```
